# Job-Satisfaction
This study is for my Quantitative Sociology class at The College of New Jersey. The research done, evaluates the wide variety of factors, relating to an individual's characteristics or experiences, that can impact how satisfied they are within their job. All of these factors combine together in order to determine the responses in which individuals have for how satisfied they are with the work that they do for their career. When analyzing this data, I sought to find out which of these factors have the largest impact on this targeted dependent variable. 
# Instructions
To access and use the script, open the "    " file, in which contains the code for my project. To gain access to the dataset used, open the "   " file. 
# Data
GSS Survey asks randomly selected people from the American population. Only those who are employed within the American population, were asked about their job satisfaction, as those who are not employed, would have answers that would not be applicable for this data collection. Therefore, the target population is the employed American population. Within the survey, respondents were asked if they are currently employed and those who responded, ‘yes”, would then be asked the following question about their job satisfaction. 
From this, in 2022, this information was collected asking the question, “On the whole, how satisfied are you with the work you do – would you say you are very satisfied, moderately satisfied, a little dissatisfied or very dissatisfied?”, serving as the dependent variable question.  This question easily allows respondents to reflect on their career and their feelings about the work that they do. Multiple factors can impact how satisfied one is with their job, and so therefore this also responds to reply based upon this scale provided, without having to specify their reasoning, but instead of just ranking their experiences. 
# Operationalize
To operationalize my data, I research variables that had to so with my topic of job satisfaction and then others variables that could have an impact on this concept. All of these variables came from the 2022 GSS survey. I was able to come up with a variety of concepts based on these variables collected. From there, I was able to code these variables using Rstudio to create three tables, needed in order to conduct proper research on this topic and analyze the desired results. 
The first independent concept, Background Influences, was measured in two ways, such as by race and socioeconomic status. The first variable of race was gathered by the GSS survey question: “If you had to choose, which of these races do you identify most with?”. Respondents could choose from a large list of races that they mostly identify with, however re-coding was used to condense this information into sections of (1) White, (2) Black, and (3) Other. The second variable measured socioeconomic status by asking respondents' to report their family’s income in constant dollars. 
The second independent concept, Self-Identifying Perspectives, was analyzed through collected data based upon how respondents identify in terms of gender, and how they believe their workplace priorities safety. The first variable of gender was gathered by the GSS survey question: “Do you describe yourself as male, female, or trangender?”. Respondents could choose from these three options that they mostly identify with, however re-coding was used to condense this information into sections of (1) male and (2) non-male. The second variable was measured by asking respondents' to “Please tell me whether you strongly agree, agree, disagree or strongly disagree with each of these statements. K. The safety of workers is a high priority with management where I work”. These responses were condensed into groups of (1) agree and (2) disagree. 
The third independent concept, Impacts on Job Choice, was analyzed through collected data on the number of children an individual has and what level of degree they have obtained. The first variable was gathered by the GSS survey question: “How many children have you ever had? Please count all that were born alive at any time (including any you had from a previous marriage)”. Respondents could choose from options zero to eight or more; however re-coding was used to condense this information into sections of (1) no children and (2) children. The second variable was measured by asking respondents' to indicate what was the highest level of degree they have earned with options to choose being (1) no high school, (2) high school, (3) associates, (4) bachelors, and (5) graduate. These responses were condensed into groups of (1) high school or less and (2) associates or more. 
The fourth independent concept, Impacts from Career, was analyzed through collected data on how likely one is to lose their job and the type of shift they work. The first variable was gathered by the GSS survey question: “A. Thinking about the next 12 months, how likely do you think it is that you will lose your job or be laid off?”. Respondents could choose from options (1) very likely, (2) fairly likely, (3) not too likely, or (4) not at all likely; however re-coding was used to condense this information into sections of (1) likely and (2) not likely. The second variable was measured by asking respondents: “Which of the following best describes your usual work schedule?” with options (1) day shift, (2) afternoon shift, (3) night shift, (4) split shift, (5) irregular shift and (6) rotating shift. These responses were condensed into groups of (1) day shift or (2) not day shift.
